# buildspace Solana NFT Drop Project
### Welcome 👋
To get started with this course, clone this repo and follow these commands:

1. cd into the `app` folder
2. Run `npm install` at the root of your directory
3. Run `npm run start` to start the project
4. Start coding!

### What is the .vscode Folder?
If you use VSCode to build your app, we included a list of suggested extensions that will help you build this project! Once you open this project in VSCode, you will see a popup asking if you want to download the recommended extensions :).

### Questions?
Have some questions make sure you head over to your [buildspace Dashboard](https://app.buildspace.so/projects/CO77556be5-25e9-49dd-a799-91a2fc29520e) and link your Discord account so you can get access to helpful channels and your instructor!

### How to deploy the NFT on the solana devnet

1. In assert directory, insert the json files and png files

if you want to change the NFT deployed , first delete the .cache
Delete the .cache folder that was generated by the Metaplex CLI's candy machine commands.

Run Metaplex's upload command via the CLI to upload the NFTs.
Please run this command in the same directory

ts-node ~/metaplex-foundation/metaplex/js/packages/cli/src/candy-machine-cli.ts upload ./assets --env devnet --keypair ~/.config/solana/devnet.json

2. Run Metaplex's verify command via the CLI to make sure the NFTs were uploaded.

ts-node ~/metaplex-foundation/metaplex/js/packages/cli/src/candy-machine-cli.ts verify --keypair ~/.config/solana/devnet.json

3. Run Metaplex's create_candy_machine command via the CLI to create a new candy machine.

ts-node ~/metaplex-foundation/metaplex/js/packages/cli/src/candy-machine-cli.ts create_candy_machine --env devnet --keypair ~/.config/solana/devnet.json -p 1

4. Run Metaplex's update_candy_machine command via the CLI to create the drop date.

eric@ubuntu:~/Git/nft-drop-starter-project$ ts-node ~/metaplex-foundation/metaplex/js/packages/cli/src/candy-machine-cli.ts update_candy_machine --date "1 Dec 2021 00:12:00 GMT" --env devnet --keypair ~/.config/solana/devnet.json

5. Update your .env file with all your new addresses.
If you mess up even one of these steps, everything will break. So, watch out.

the env files is in the  .cache/devnet-temp

Note: .cache/devnet-temp can be found at the root of your folder after running the Metaplex command in previous steps.
REACT_APP_CANDY_MACHINE_CONFIG - This can be found in your .cache/devnet-temp JSON file that was created. Look for the value associated with the config key.
REACT_APP_CANDY_MACHINE_ID - This can also be found in the same .cache/devnet-temp JSON file, look for the value associated with the candyMachineAddress key.
REACT_APP_TREASURY_ADDRESS - This can also be found in the same .cache/devnet-temp JSON file, look for the value associated with the authority key.
REACT_APP_SOLANA_NETWORK - Set this to devnet as this is just the network in which we are accessing our candy machine from
REACT_APP_SOLANA_RPC_HOST - This is pretty much the same as above. Since we are accessing out Candy Machine on devnet we need to point the RPC to that devnet link which is https://explorer-api.devnet.solana.com


